---
title: Command line reference
subtitle: Getting Gleam things done in the terminal
layout: page
---

<!-- This file is automatically generated by `writing-gleam/command-line-reference.sh` -->

The `gleam` command uses subcommands to access different parts of the functionality:

## `new`

`gleam new [OPTIONS] <PROJECT_ROOT>`

Create a new project

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--description <DESCRIPTION>`| Description of the project [default: "A Gleam project"]
| `--name <NAME>`| Name of the project
| `--skip-git`| Skip git initialization and creation of .gitignore, .git/* and .github/* files
| `--skip-github`| Skip creation of .github/* files
| `--template <TEMPLATE>`| [default: lib] [possible values: lib]

## `build`

`gleam build [OPTIONS]`

Build the project

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--target <TARGET>`| The platform to target
| `--warnings-as-errors`| Emit compile time warnings as errors

## `run`

`gleam run [OPTIONS] [ARGUMENTS]...`

Run the project

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--runtime <RUNTIME>`| [possible values: node, deno]
| `--target <TARGET>`| The platform to target

## `test`

`gleam test [OPTIONS] [ARGUMENTS]...`

Run the project tests

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--runtime <RUNTIME>`| 
| `--target <TARGET>`| The platform to target

## `add`

`gleam add [OPTIONS] <PACKAGES>...`

Add new project dependencies

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--dev`| Add the packages as dev-only dependencies

## `shell`

`gleam shell`

Start an Erlang shell


## `check`

`gleam check`

Type check the project


## `clean`

`gleam clean`

Clean build artifacts


## `update`

`gleam update`

Update dependency packages to their latest versions


## `help`

`gleam help [SUBCOMMAND]...`

Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)


## `format`

`gleam format [OPTIONS] [FILES]...`

Format source code

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--check`| Check if inputs are formatted without changing them
| `--stdin`| Read source from STDIN

## `lsp`

`gleam lsp`

Run the language server, to be used by editors


## `publish`

`gleam publish [OPTIONS]`

Publish the project to the Hex package manager

This command uses this environment variables:

- HEXPM_USER: (optional) The Hex username to authenticate with.
- HEXPM_PASS: (optional) The Hex password to authenticate with.

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--replace`| 
| `-y, --yes`| 

## `deps`

`gleam deps <SUBCOMMAND>`

Work with dependency packages


### `deps download`

`gleam deps download`

Download all dependency packages


### `deps list`

`gleam deps list`

List all dependency packages


### `deps update`

`gleam deps update`

Update dependency packages to their latest versions


## `hex`

`gleam hex <SUBCOMMAND>`

Work with the Hex package manager


### `hex retire`

`gleam hex retire <PACKAGE> <VERSION> <REASON> [MESSAGE]`

Retire a release from Hex

This command uses this environment variables:

- HEXPM_USER: (optional) The Hex username to authenticate with.
- HEXPM_PASS: (optional) The Hex password to authenticate with.


### `hex unretire`

`gleam hex unretire <PACKAGE> <VERSION>`

Un-retire a release from Hex

This command uses this environment variables:

- HEXPM_USER: (optional) The Hex username to authenticate with.
- HEXPM_PASS: (optional) The Hex password to authenticate with.


## `docs`

`gleam docs <SUBCOMMAND>`

Render HTML documentation


### `docs build`

`gleam docs build`

Render HTML docs locally


### `docs publish`

`gleam docs publish`

Publish HTML docs to HexDocs

This command uses this environment variables:

- HEXPM_USER: (optional) The Hex username to authenticate with.
- HEXPM_PASS: (optional) The Hex password to authenticate with.


### `docs remove`

`gleam docs remove --package <PACKAGE> --version <VERSION>`

Remove HTML docs from HexDocs

This command uses this environment variables:

- HEXPM_USER: (optional) The Hex username to authenticate with.
- HEXPM_PASS: (optional) The Hex password to authenticate with.

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `--package <PACKAGE> The name of the package`| 
| `--version <VERSION> The version of the docs to remove`| 

## `export`

`gleam export <SUBCOMMAND>`

Export something useful from the Gleam project


### `export erlang-shipment`

`gleam export erlang-shipment`

Precompiled Erlang, suitable for deployment

