---
author: Louis Pilfold
title: Gleam v0.3 released!
tags:
  - Languages
  - Gleam
---

[Gleam](https://github.com/lpil/gleam) has reached v0.3! Let's take a look at
some of the new features introduced since v0.1.

## Module namespaces

Modules can now be namespaced, allowing use of short, convenient module names
without the risk of collisions with other Gleam or Erlang modules.

To use a namespace create a directory with the name of your namespace inside
the `src/` directory and put your modules in there. As an example, if I'm
making the hot new food delivery app `snackr` I might choose to have a
directory structure like this:

```
src/
└── snackr
    ├── customer.gleam
    ├── payment.gleam
    └── food
        ├── falafel.gleam
        ├── pizza.gleam
        └── salad.gleam
```

Once created these modules can be brought into scope using the `import`
statement.

```rust
import snackr/customer
import snackr/food/falafel

fn eat_lunch(louis) {
  customer:eat(louis, falafel:new())
}
```

It's now possible to use multiple modules with the same name, so for
convenience modules can be given a name when imported.

```rust
import space/rocket as spaceship
import salad/rocket as leafy_green
```


## Type annotations

Gleam's type inference doesn't require any annotations to understand the types
of all your code and provide full type safety, but we might still want to add
some for documentation, or to specify more restrictive types then Gleam might
otherwise infer.

It looks a little something like this:

```rust
fn is_empty(list: List(a)) -> Bool {
  list == []
}
```


## Easier installation

Precompiled Gleam binaries for Linux and OSX can now be downloaded from the
[Gleam GitHub release page](https://github.com/lpil/gleam/releases) so it's no
longer required to install Rust on your machine and build the compiler from
source.

Victor Borja has kindly created an `asdf` version manager [plugin for
Gleam](https://github.com/vic/asdf-gleam), so for asdf users installing Gleam
is as easy as `asdf install gleam v0.3.0`.

For Docker fans the Gleam compiler has been packaged as a Docker image tagged
as [`lpil/gleam`](https://hub.docker.com/r/lpil/gleam).


## Easier project creation

Previously Gleam projects were created using a rebar3 plugin. This worked but
was one more thing to install, and there was to good way of ensuring that you
have an up to date version of the plugin to match your Gleam installation.

Now project creation is handled by the `gleam` binary itself, so to get
started with Gleam run `gleam new my_cool_project` and it'll generate all
that's required.

If you've got `rebar_gleam` installed it's safe to delete it from your
`~/.config/rebar3/rebar.config` as it's no longer used.


## The rest

In addition to these features there's been a number of other improvements to
the quality of the error messages, the generated code, and a handful of bug
fixes. 😊

If you want to try out the new version of Gleam head over to the [installation
page](https://gleam.run/getting-started/installing-gleam.html). I'd love to
hear how you find it and get your feedback so Gleam can continue to improve.


## Code BEAM lite Berlin

On the 11th of October 2019 I'll be speaking at [Code BEAM lite
Berlin](https://codesync.global/conferences/code-beam-lite-berlin-2019/) about
Gleam. If you're attending (or are in Berlin but not attending) say Hello!
